From: PaulMTWP@aol.com
Date: Sat, 20 Sep 1997 19:02:46 -0400 (EDT)
To: harpers@newboston.net
cc: MaryANBP@aol.com
Subject: Buddy Miles stuff

The Buddy Miles Express

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Miles has come a long way since his first professional gig, when at the 
age of twelve he began playing drums in his father's jazz combo in 
Omaha, Nebraska. It was only a matter of time before his inimitable 
bottom-heavy style attracted the attention of the multitudinous R&B and 
doo-wop groups who were touring the chitlin' circuit and, eventually, 
the teenaged Miles landed a seat as part of Wilson Pickett's live revue. 

In 1967, while performing with Pickett, he was approached by Michael 
Bloomfield and Barry Goldberg and asked to join a new psychedelic rock 
band called The Electric Flag. With Miles on drums, the Flag recorded 
one high-voltage slab of vinyl before parting ways in 1968. Up from the 
skies came the freshly-formed Buddy Miles Express and a renewed 
friendship with Jimi Hendrix, with whom Miles had been running as early 
as June of 1967, when the two played the Monterey Pop Festival. 
Hendrix's archetypal and apocalyptic Electric Ladyland marked the 
beginning of their fruitful collaboration in the studio, with Miles 
laying down a solid backbeat dripping with the blues for "Rainy Day" and 
"Still Raining." Hendrix would return the favor by writing the 
beautifully envisioned liner notes for BME's EXPRESSWAY TO YOUR SKULL 
and producing tracks for the follow-up ELECTRIC CHURCH in 1969. 

After the breakup of the Jimi Hendrix Experience in late 1969, Hendrix 
recruited Miles for what would be one of the lasting musical statements 
of both their careers. Over the protests of his management, who feared 
the repercussions of adopting a so-called "Black Power" stance in his 
music, Jimi formed the Band of Gypsys with Billy Cox on bass and Miles 
on drums and backing vocals. Arguably the first true "black rock" band, 
the Gypsys debuted at Bill Graham's Fillmore East on New Year's Eve 1970 
and opened their historic second set with the Hendrix classic "Machine 
Gun." Writer David Henderson described Miles in action in 'Scuse Me 
While I Kiss the Sky, the definitive Hendrix biography: 

"Buddy Miles pauses, eyes closed, like a Buddha within a silver metal 
bubba flowing outward, his snare shots wide and strong. He beats into 
the depths of a groove, the snare shots ratatatting stronger and 
stronger. Miles captures and entrances you with his repetition. The 
intensity of his shots ring out on par with Jimi's guitar." 

The Fillmore set formed the basis of the Band of Gypsys live album, 
which featured two tracks written by Miles "We Gotta Live Together" and 
the seminal "Them Changes," which has since become the signature song of 
the Express. Ironically, although Band Of Gypsys was in many ways a 
breakthrough for Hendrix, the group dissolved scarcely two months later 
for reasons that remain mysterious even to this day. Miles-o-philes can 
dig other Gypsys cuts on the obscure Hendrix collection, "Loose Ends," 
an invaluable document of rehearsals and outtakes that features the 
extended funk workout "Burning Desire."

:):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):):)

From: PaulMTWP@aol.com
Date: Sat, 20 Sep 1997 19:11:09 -0400 (EDT)
To: harpers@newboston.net
cc: MaryANBP@aol.com
Subject: more Buddy Miles fluff

Hard R&B from the veteran drummer/singer/composer/bandleader. With 
producer Bill Laswell and the Uptown Horns, Buddy Miles pulls together 
all eras of an amazing career that includes stints with such legendary 
archetypes as Wilson Pickett, Jimi Hendrix and Funkadelic -- as well as 
a series of classic Express albums -- into his most powerful recording 
ever. Fast-forward to the present day, with the Black Arc release of 
HELL AND BACK, and the legacy of Hendrix -- as well as the influences of 
other artist with whom Miles has worked -- still burns brightly, fueled 
by deeply soulful performances and a rootsy emphasis on the funk. Mixing 
original compositions with reworkings of some favorite standards, HELL 
AND BACK recalls the funky exuberance of the string of albums that Miles 
and the Express recorded in the seventies for the Casablanca label. 
(Fittingly, George Clinton, the leader of Parliament, another Casablanca 
act, would hire Miles to play drums on the Funkadelic anthem "Comin' 
Round the Mountain" for the incredible HARDCORE JOLLIES album, released 
in 1976.) But for all its seventies funk flavor, HELL AND BACK also 
boasts a technological edge -- as heard in the impeccable mixing of 
Miles' drums, the subsonic throb of the low end, and the sprawling 
warmth of the organ, bass, and guitars -- that hurtles it forward into 
the 21st century. Opening with a remake of Albert King's "Born Under A 
Bad Sign," Buddy seems to make a forceful but ironic statement 
concerning his whereabouts of the last ten years, and his soul-stirring 
take on the blues classic serves more than anything to clarify that the 
return of the Express is no jive. The feedback-laden intro to Dylan's 
"All Along the Watchtower" soars with the angel of Hendrix, complete 
with a section of the guitar solo recorded backwards with a not to "Are 
You Experienced." (Those who have never seen Miles shred a guitar might 
be please to know that, like Hendrix, he's a lefty who plays a 
right-handed Strat string upside-down.) A swirling Hammond B-3 organ 
gives "The Change," a Miles original, its distinctly churchlike feel as 
Buddy infuses the story of busted romance with a big-bottomed thump and 
some wailing vocal tracks. As ever, Miles is equally at ease with a 
ballad, as his powerful and pleading vocals attest in the Everly 
Brothers classic, "Let It Be Me." Aided and abetted by the spirited 
brass arrangements of the Uptown Horns, jams like "The Decision" surge 
ahead with a Santana-like feel that takes flight with a juicy organ 
solo, while the driving, Stax/Volt-inflected "Be Kind to Your 
Girlfriend" grooves on in the spirit of Otis Redding. Finally, HELL AND 
BACK wouldn't be an Express album without the nastily funkified rhythms 
of "Nothing Left to Lose," where the youngsters from Chicago are turned 
loose to flex their muscles on scratch guitar and string-popping bass. 

